README.md, before:

# Date Range Picker for Semantic UI

![Improvely.com](http://i.imgur.com/LbAMf3D.png)

This date range picker component for Semantic UI creates a dropdown menu from
which a user can select a range of dates. This is a port of the original project
created for [Improvely](http://www.improvely.com), which needed a way to select
date ranges for reports.

If invoked with no options, it will present two calendars to choose a start
and end date from. Optionally, you can provide a list of date ranges the user
can select from instead of choosing dates from the calendars. If attached to a
text input, the selected dates will be inserted into the text box. Otherwise,
you can provide a custom callback function to receive the selection.

The component can also be used as a single date picker by setting the
`singleDatePicker` option to `true`.

**[View some examples](http://www.daterangepicker.com/)** or
**[Try it in a live application](https://awio.iljmp.com/5/drpdemogh)**

## Usage

This component relies on [Semantic UI](http://semantic-ui.com/),
[Moment.js](http://momentjs.com/) and [jQuery](http://jquery.com/).

Basic usage:

```
<script type="text/javascript" src="jquery.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="moment.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="daterangepicker.js"></script>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="bootstrap.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="daterangepicker-bs3.css" />

<script type="text/javascript">
$(document).ready(function() {
  $('input[name="daterange"]').daterangepicker();
});
</script>
```

The constructor also takes an optional options object and callback function.
The function will be called whenever the selected date range has been changed by
the user, and is passed the start and end dates (moment date objects) and the
predefined range label chosen (if any), as parameters. It will not fire if the
picker is closed without any change to the selected dates.

````
$('input[name="daterange"]').daterangepicker(
  {
    format: 'YYYY-MM-DD',
    startDate: '2013-01-01',
    endDate: '2013-12-31'
  },
  function(start, end, label) {
    alert('A date range was chosen: ' + start.format('YYYY-MM-DD') + ' to ' + end.format('YYYY-MM-DD'));
  }
);
````

## Options

`startDate`: (Date object, moment object or string) The start of the initially
selected date range.

`endDate`: (Date object, moment object or string) The end of the initially
selected date range.

`minDate`: (Date object, moment object or string) The earliest date a user may
select.

`maxDate`: (Date object, moment object or string) The latest date a user may
select.

`dateLimit`: (object) The maximum span between the selected start and end dates.
Can have any property you can add to a moment object (i.e. days, months).

`timeZone`: (string or number) The timezone that will be used to display the
startDate and endDate in the calendar. This may be a string such as "08:00" or
an offset in minutes from Greenwich Mean Time. Uses Moment.js #utcOffset,
[see the docs here](http://momentjs.com/docs/#/manipulating/utc-offset/) for
more information. If the timeZone option is not set, the calendar will use the
time zone set on the startDate that has been passed in through the options, if
it has one. Defaults to the local time zone.

`showDropdowns`: (boolean) Show year and month select boxes above calendars to
jump to a specific month and year.

`showWeekNumbers`: (boolean) Show week numbers at the start of each week on the
calendars.

`timePicker`: (boolean) Allow selection of dates with times, not just dates.

`timePickerIncrement`: (number) Increment of the minutes selection list for
times (i.e. 30 to allow only selection of times ending in 0 or 30).

`timePicker12Hour`: (boolean) Use 12-hour instead of 24-hour times, adding an
AM/PM select box.

`timePickerSeconds`: (boolean) Show seconds in the timePicker.

`ranges`: (object) Set predefined date ranges the user can select from. Each key
is the label for the range, and its value an array with two dates representing
the bounds of the range.

`opens`: (string: 'left'/'right'/'center') Whether the picker appears aligned to
the left, to the right, or centered under the HTML element it's attached to.

`drops`: (string: 'down' or 'up') Whether the picker opens below (default) or
above the element it's attached to.

`buttonClasses`: (array) CSS class names that will be added to all buttons in
the picker.

`applyClass`: (string) CSS class string that will be added to the apply button.

`cancelClass`: (string) CSS class string that will be added to the cancel
button.

`format`: (string) Date/time format string used by moment when parsing or
displaying the selected dates.

`separator`: (string) Separator string to display between the start and end date
when populating a text input the picker is attached to.

`locale`: (object) Allows you to provide localized strings for buttons and
labels, and the first day of week for the calendars

`singleDatePicker`: (boolean) Show only a single calendar to choose one date,
instead of a range picker with two calendars; the start and end dates provided
to your callback will be the same single date chosen.

`autoApply`: (boolean) If set to true and if in singleDatePicker mode, then the date (and also the time if timePicker is true) is used when a date is clicked.  The Apply and Cancel buttons are not displayed.  

`parentEl`: (string) jQuery selector of the parent element that the date range
picker will be added to, if not provided this will be `'body'`.

## Functions

Several functions are provided for updating the picker's option and state after
initialization:

`setOptions(object, function)`: This function has the same signature and purpose
as the date range picker's constructor: it sets the picker's options to their
defaults, overrides them with any values in an options object you provide, and
sets the callback for selection changes to whatever function you provide.

`setStartDate(Date/moment/string)`: Sets the date range picker's currently
selected start date to the provided date.

`setEndDate(Date/moment/string)`: Sets the date range picker's currently
selected end date to the provided date.

Example usage:

````
//create a new date range picker
$('#daterange').daterangepicker({ startDate: '2014-03-05', endDate: '2014-03-06' });

//change the selected date range of that picker
$('#daterange').data('daterangepicker').setStartDate('2014-03-01');
$('#daterange').data('daterangepicker').setEndDate('2014-03-31');
````

## Events

Several events are triggered on the element you attach the picker to, which you
can listen for:

`show.daterangepicker`: Triggered when the picker is shown

`hide.daterangepicker`: Triggered when the picker is hidden

`showCalendar.daterangepicker`: Triggered when the calendar is shown

`hideCalendar.daterangepicker`: Triggered when the calendar is hidden

`apply.daterangepicker`: Triggered when the apply button is clicked

`cancel.daterangepicker`: Triggered when the cancel button is clicked

Some applications need a "clear" instead of a "cancel" functionality, which can
be achieved by changing the button label and watching for the cancel event:

````
$('#daterange').daterangepicker({
  locale: { cancelLabel: 'Clear' }  
});

$('#daterange').on('cancel.daterangepicker', function(ev, picker) {
  //do something, like clearing an input
  $('#daterange').val('');
});
````

While passing in a callback to the constructor is the easiest way to listen for
changes in the selected date range, you can also do something every time the
apply button is clicked even if the selection hasn't changed:

````
$('#daterange').daterangepicker();
$('#daterange').on('apply.daterangepicker', function(ev, picker) {
  console.log(picker.startDate.format('YYYY-MM-DD'));
  console.log(picker.endDate.format('YYYY-MM-DD'));
});
````

## License

This code is made available under the same license as Bootstrap. Moment.js is
included in this repository for convenience. It is available under the
[MIT license](http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php).

--

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2012-2014 Dan Grossman

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

Add autoApply functionality so that Update and Cancel buttons are not displayed.

README.md, after:

# Date Range Picker for Semantic UI

![Improvely.com](http://i.imgur.com/LbAMf3D.png)

This date range picker component for Semantic UI creates a dropdown menu from
which a user can select a range of dates. This is a port of the original project
created for [Improvely](http://www.improvely.com), which needed a way to select
date ranges for reports.

If invoked with no options, it will present two calendars to choose a start
and end date from. Optionally, you can provide a list of date ranges the user
can select from instead of choosing dates from the calendars. If attached to a
text input, the selected dates will be inserted into the text box. Otherwise,
you can provide a custom callback function to receive the selection.

The component can also be used as a single date picker by setting the
`singleDatePicker` option to `true`.

**[View some examples](http://www.daterangepicker.com/)** or
**[Try it in a live application](https://awio.iljmp.com/5/drpdemogh)**

## Usage

This component relies on [Semantic UI](http://semantic-ui.com/),
[Moment.js](http://momentjs.com/) and [jQuery](http://jquery.com/).

Basic usage:

```
<script type="text/javascript" src="jquery.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="moment.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="daterangepicker.js"></script>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="bootstrap.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="daterangepicker-bs3.css" />

<script type="text/javascript">
$(document).ready(function() {
  $('input[name="daterange"]').daterangepicker();
});
</script>
```

The constructor also takes an optional options object and callback function.
The function will be called whenever the selected date range has been changed by
the user, and is passed the start and end dates (moment date objects) and the
predefined range label chosen (if any), as parameters. It will not fire if the
picker is closed without any change to the selected dates.

````
$('input[name="daterange"]').daterangepicker(
  {
    format: 'YYYY-MM-DD',
    startDate: '2013-01-01',
    endDate: '2013-12-31'
  },
  function(start, end, label) {
    alert('A date range was chosen: ' + start.format('YYYY-MM-DD') + ' to ' + end.format('YYYY-MM-DD'));
  }
);
````

## Options

`startDate`: (Date object, moment object or string) The start of the initially
selected date range.

`endDate`: (Date object, moment object or string) The end of the initially
selected date range.

`minDate`: (Date object, moment object or string) The earliest date a user may
select.

`maxDate`: (Date object, moment object or string) The latest date a user may
select.

`dateLimit`: (object) The maximum span between the selected start and end dates.
Can have any property you can add to a moment object (i.e. days, months).

`timeZone`: (string or number) The timezone that will be used to display the
startDate and endDate in the calendar. This may be a string such as "08:00" or
an offset in minutes from Greenwich Mean Time. Uses Moment.js #utcOffset,
[see the docs here](http://momentjs.com/docs/#/manipulating/utc-offset/) for
more information. If the timeZone option is not set, the calendar will use the
time zone set on the startDate that has been passed in through the options, if
it has one. Defaults to the local time zone.

`showDropdowns`: (boolean) Show year and month select boxes above calendars to
jump to a specific month and year.

`showWeekNumbers`: (boolean) Show week numbers at the start of each week on the
calendars.

`timePicker`: (boolean) Allow selection of dates with times, not just dates.

`timePickerIncrement`: (number) Increment of the minutes selection list for
times (i.e. 30 to allow only selection of times ending in 0 or 30).

`timePicker12Hour`: (boolean) Use 12-hour instead of 24-hour times, adding an
AM/PM select box.

`timePickerSeconds`: (boolean) Show seconds in the timePicker.

`ranges`: (object) Set predefined date ranges the user can select from. Each key
is the label for the range, and its value an array with two dates representing
the bounds of the range.

`opens`: (string: 'left'/'right'/'center') Whether the picker appears aligned to
the left, to the right, or centered under the HTML element it's attached to.

`drops`: (string: 'down' or 'up') Whether the picker opens below (default) or
above the element it's attached to.

`buttonClasses`: (array) CSS class names that will be added to all buttons in
the picker.

`applyClass`: (string) CSS class string that will be added to the apply button.

`cancelClass`: (string) CSS class string that will be added to the cancel
button.

`format`: (string) Date/time format string used by moment when parsing or
displaying the selected dates.

`separator`: (string) Separator string to display between the start and end date
when populating a text input the picker is attached to.

`locale`: (object) Allows you to provide localized strings for buttons and
labels, and the first day of week for the calendars

`singleDatePicker`: (boolean) Show only a single calendar to choose one date,
instead of a range picker with two calendars; the start and end dates provided
to your callback will be the same single date chosen.

`autoApply`: (boolean) Hide the apply and cancel buttons, and automatically apply a new date range as soon as two dates or a predefined range is selected.  If timePicker is true, then the time currently chosen will also be used.

`parentEl`: (string) jQuery selector of the parent element that the date range
picker will be added to, if not provided this will be `'body'`.

## Functions

Several functions are provided for updating the picker's option and state after
initialization:

`setOptions(object, function)`: This function has the same signature and purpose
as the date range picker's constructor: it sets the picker's options to their
defaults, overrides them with any values in an options object you provide, and
sets the callback for selection changes to whatever function you provide.

`setStartDate(Date/moment/string)`: Sets the date range picker's currently
selected start date to the provided date.

`setEndDate(Date/moment/string)`: Sets the date range picker's currently
selected end date to the provided date.

Example usage:

````
//create a new date range picker
$('#daterange').daterangepicker({ startDate: '2014-03-05', endDate: '2014-03-06' });

//change the selected date range of that picker
$('#daterange').data('daterangepicker').setStartDate('2014-03-01');
$('#daterange').data('daterangepicker').setEndDate('2014-03-31');
````

## Events

Several events are triggered on the element you attach the picker to, which you
can listen for:

`show.daterangepicker`: Triggered when the picker is shown

`hide.daterangepicker`: Triggered when the picker is hidden

`showCalendar.daterangepicker`: Triggered when the calendar is shown

`hideCalendar.daterangepicker`: Triggered when the calendar is hidden

`apply.daterangepicker`: Triggered when the apply button is clicked

`cancel.daterangepicker`: Triggered when the cancel button is clicked

Some applications need a "clear" instead of a "cancel" functionality, which can
be achieved by changing the button label and watching for the cancel event:

````
$('#daterange').daterangepicker({
  locale: { cancelLabel: 'Clear' }  
});

$('#daterange').on('cancel.daterangepicker', function(ev, picker) {
  //do something, like clearing an input
  $('#daterange').val('');
});
````

While passing in a callback to the constructor is the easiest way to listen for
changes in the selected date range, you can also do something every time the
apply button is clicked even if the selection hasn't changed:

````
$('#daterange').daterangepicker();
$('#daterange').on('apply.daterangepicker', function(ev, picker) {
  console.log(picker.startDate.format('YYYY-MM-DD'));
  console.log(picker.endDate.format('YYYY-MM-DD'));
});
````

## License

This code is made available under the same license as Bootstrap. Moment.js is
included in this repository for convenience. It is available under the
[MIT license](http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php).

--

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2012-2014 Dan Grossman

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.
